Warriors coach, Zdravko Logarusic, recently named a bloated 38-man squad, which is mainly composed of foreign-based players, dotted around the globe, for the two qualifiers against Botswana and Zambia. And, young goalkeeper, Mapisa, is among the players in this squad. There were fears that, just like the other Euro-based players, he might not make it for these two make-or-break ties, due to travel restrictions, imposed by a number of countries. The Covid-19 restrictions have also seen some European clubs barring players from travelling for international duty. But Mapisa, who plays for Zamora CF in the Spanish Segunda Division B, yesterday told The Herald, he will “definitely” be flying back home for the two matches. Zimbabwe take on Botswana and Zambia on March 25 and 29. The two matches will determine whether the Warriors either advance to Cameroon or remain at home. Mapisa, who is now Zamora’s first-choice goalkeeper, after taking over the gloves from veteran Jon Villanueva, said he felt honoured to join the Warriors squad. The 22-year-old Aces Youth Soccer Academy graduate said his club were “more than willing” to release him, for these two crucial AFCON ties. He is one of the four goalkeepers in the provisional squad. The others are Talbert Shumba, who is based in Zambia, United States-based Tatenda Mkuruva and Ariel Sibanda of Highlanders. “I feel great to be on that Warriors list, for the two matches against Botswana and Zambia,’’ Mapisa said. ‘’I think that shows I’m doing well, where I am, and it’s another challenge again, I have to face, to help my country to qualify for the AFCON finals. ‘’So, I’m so proud to be in that squad, to honest. “My team can release me for national duty, this time around, without any problem, despite the travel restrictions, which are in place, due to the coronavirus outbreak in Europe and throughout the world.’’ Spain recently relaxed travel restrictions of people, going out and coming in into that country, as the numbers of Covid-19 infections continue to drop. Mapisa said he can easily fly out to Zimbabwe and his return to Spain will not be any have any challenges. --Herald--