Motsepe is one of the leading candidates to become the next CAF President, with the elections scheduled to take place in Rabat, Morocco on March 12. As part of his candidacy, the Mamelodi Sundowns has presented his “10-point Action Plan for Building African Football to be the Best in The World”, which focuses on improving investment, better governance and the introduction of VAR for senior competitions. In terms of raising funds, Motsepe’s is quoted by Times Live as stating: “We are going to have to talk to the private sector‚ because the businesses that I’m associated with‚ we do business in 40 countries in Africa. So‚ we succeed in Africa‚ we’ve got a duty to give back in Africa. And the way to give back is not to hold a gun to the head of a Chief Executive Officer of a company but to talk nicely and persuade him. In terms of governance and increased prize funds, Motsepe’s manifesto reads: “We will contribute to improving the efficiency‚ administration and organisation of CAF’s competitions as well as the professionalism and productivity of its staff and will also put in place medical best practices particularly in the context of Covid-19. “It is also important to significantly increase the prize money of the CAF Africa Cup of Nations and of the top Pan African club competitions.” The document adds, “We will focus on contributing to building a respected‚ credible and ethical football governing association in every country in Africa and also focus on contributing to building an equally respected‚ credible and ethical African continental football governing body, CAF, that is transparent and accountable and that implements and adheres to auditing and governance global best practices.” The issue of consistent refereeing has long been a stumbling block in African football, with the manifesto stating: “VAR will be implemented at all CAF senior competitions.” Motsepe is running against three other candidates: Augustin Senghor of Senegal, Ahmed Yahya from Mauritania, and Ivorian Jacques Anouma.  --AllAfrica-- 