The order left companies that rely on Internet connectivity to do business counting losses. Companies are saying they are staring at spiralling negative effects following days of no operations. “This puts our businesses in bad shape, some businesses will be in a really bad situation,” says Rapa Thomson Ricky, the co-founder and director of taxi-hailing company Safe Boda. According to Ricky, Safe Boda grosses over a million mobile transactions with its network of 22 000 drivers in the Kampala Metropolitan Area, through which it earns a small fee. Online store, Jumia, is also counting losses after hundreds of orders including food deliveries as well as parcels of non-food items were either left in transit and not sent to the arbitrary internet shutdown, Chief Executive Officer Ronnie Kawamara said. Owners of other companies in the transport industry, hotels and restaurants, import and export, and telecoms also said they are yet to quantify the impact of UCC’s order on the Internet shutdown, but warned that such actions have far-reaching economic and investment consequences as they make Uganda unattractive to investors. In 2016 election, UCC ordered the shutdown of popular social media channels and mobile money based transfers and transactions for four days, citing national security concerns, a directive that cost the economy $2 million, studies by internet rights scholars have indicated. The government shutdown the internet on January 13, on the eve of election day, in an effort to stop the public from using social media and other cyber communication channels to transmit results from polling stations. The crackdown means 17.5 million Internet users in Uganda cannot use their gadgets to access services, while several e-commerce businesses such as Jumia and internet based payment systems are also disabled. The Internet shutdown is an escalation of restrictions that the government, through UCC imposed on Tuesday, January 12, with the shutdown of popular social media platforms Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. --TheEastAfrican--