The Asia, Africa and Middle East-focused bank however cautioned that income in 2021 is likely to be similar to last year, indicating the challenge it faces to meet its modest profit goals in a world of rock-bottom interest rates. Boosting revenue has been Chief Executive Officer, Bill Winters’ main headache in recent years, as slowing growth in many of the bank’s key markets, a commodities downturn and low central bank rates all conspired to crush income. StanChart like rival HSBC said it is targeting affluent customers, especially in Asian markets, to try and boost its flagging profit, hoping to earn more fees from wealth management products to offset flat-lining lending returns. The London-headquartered lender also said it would return capital to investors via a 9 cents per share dividend and $254 million buyback, with the total pay-out being the maximum allowed under temporary ‘guardrails’ set by the Bank of England. The central bank last year told Britain’s largest lenders to suspend dividend payments and share buybacks for 2020 to help them maintain capital buffers against an expected hit to loan books from the pandemic. “Having now resumed it, we expect to be able to increase the full-year dividend per share over time as we execute our strategy and progress towards a 10% return on tangible equity,” Jose Vinals, Standard Chartered’s Chairperson, said. The bank also said its return on tangible equity, a key profit metric, would climb from 3% to 7% by 2023. Analysts at Citi wrote in a client note that the 10% target was achievable if StanChart stayed at the top end of its revenue growth ambitions. However they described the bank’s fourth-quarter results as “underwhelming” in the “context of other United Kingdom listed banks, who have largely reported strong results.” StanChart’s Hong Kong listed shares fell as much as 3.3% after the results were published. The lender’s shares have in recent years been closely tied to global interest rates, as lenders struggle to make returns on loans with base rates near zero. StanChart posted a 57% fall in annual profit for 2020, missing analyst estimates, on higher credit impairments due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Its pretax profit was $1.61 billion, compared with $3.71 billion in 2019 and the $1.85 billion average of analyst forecasts compiled by the bank. Credit impairments last year more than doubled compared with a year earlier to $2.3 billion because of the pandemic, the bank said, but noted that two thirds of these charges were taken in the first half of the year. However, in common with United States and European peers, StanChart saw strong performance from its investment bank, as pandemic-related market volatility in 2020 drove frenzied trading. Income in its financial markets division rose 18%, driven by a 53% increase in income from trading interest rate-related products. StanChart, which has gone further than many other lenders in saying it will make permanent the flexible working arrangements introduced during the pandemic, also said it could cut a third of its office space in the next three to four years. --Reuters--