Coronavirus restrictions imposed by the government during the pandemic have had a negative impact. Faced with mounting uncertainties surrounding the duration and spread of the pandemic, analysts say the economic fallout could intensify unless the government takes additional measures to spur growth. There is now a real risk of more Rwandans falling into poverty as thousands face unemployment, contend with increasing consumer prices, and businesses record revenue losses. The government rolled out an extensive social safety net that led to a 1.4 percentage point reduction in the poverty headcount ratio in 2020. However, the poverty headcount is now likely to rise by 5.1 percentage points or 550,000 people in 2021, with more than 80% of the new poor in rural areas, according to data released by the World Bank this week. The pandemic has hit Rwanda's key strategic sector, service, particularly retail trade, leisure and hospitality and conference tourism, which collectively account for most jobs in the country. And despite the government adopting the Economic Recovery Plan estimated at $900 million over the two fiscal years 2019/20 and 2020/21, economic recovery remains slow in part because of the second wave of infections that recently led to a three-week lockdown in Kigali and reintroduced restrictions on movement. “The severity of the effect is due at least in part to the fact that the crisis hit where it hurt the most, travel and hospitality services, which are the sectors in which the country has invested massively in recent years through its Meetings, Incentives, Conferencing, and Exhibitions strategy. The crisis calls for the rebalancing of the growth strategy, with more emphasis on rural related activities and greater emphasis on regional integration to reduce vulnerability to international shocks,” said Calvin Djiofack, the World Bank senior economist. World Bank data shows that the lockdown imposed last March and the subsequent restrictions to contain the spread of the virus have shrunk the economy at an unprecedented level for the first time over the past 26 years after the Genocide Against the Tutsi. Rwanda’s GDP in real terms fell by 3.6% (year-on-year) in the third quarter of 2020, following a 12.4% contraction in the second quarter. GDP is estimated to have dropped by 0.2% for 2020, compared with a projected expansion of eight per cent before the Covid-19 outbreak, according to the latest 16th edition of the World Bank Rwanda Economic Update titled Protect and Promote Human Capital in a post-Covid-19 World. --TheEastAfrican--