Harare residents who spoke to The Herald revealed that with knowledge and information, people are warming up to the vaccines. Kambuzuma resident, Musa Makoni (46) said at first he was not sure if he would be vaccinated when his turn comes, but has changed his mind and cannot wait to get the jab. “I now want to get vaccinated because I have seen government’s seriousness. Just because Health and Child Care Minister Constantino Chiwenga was the first to be vaccinated, I now have so much confidence to also get the jab,” he said. He said there has been too much misinformation on the streets and on social media and this initially made him not sure and worry a bit. “I kept doing my own research from reputable sources and also listening to government statements on the vaccines and am now very sure I want to do this. I am going for the jab so is my wife and two teen children,” said the father of four. oses Kapfupi of Glen View high density suburb echoed the same sentiments saying two weeks ago, he would not have gone for vaccination had it come. “There was so much misinformation and conspiracy theories spread by non vaxxers. I just did not listen to that. If they do not want to be vaccinated, they should not force other people to do the same. I am waiting for my turn now that the process has started. I hope the next batch of vaccines comes soon so that more people are inoculated. We want our country to return back to normal. We are tired of Covid-19,” he said. Samantha Musakwa of Budiriro called for more sensitisation of communities about the vaccines to avoid misinformation by people against vaccinations. “The problem emanates from misconceptions that are peddled on social media and non vaxxers about the vaccines.  Some people just want to spread negative information. When I get vaccinated, I will move around sharing my experience with everyone who wants to listen to me,” she said. On Monday, Zimbabwe received a donation of 200 000 shots of the Sinopharm vaccine which is 80% effective from The People’s Republic of China. Vaccination is voluntary and free of charge. The first round of vaccinations will include 60 000 healthcare and other frontline workers. The elderly and those with chronic conditions will follow. Health officials have already been trained to administer the jabs with preparations continuing for the continued implementation of the programme which is targeting 10 million people. --Herald-- 