The move has left importers in a bind as it comes before the Comesa importation deadline of February 2021 expires. The importers said they had been cleared by all relevant departments, and the Agriculture and Food Authority (AFA) confirmed that they were within the quota. "Before we imported sugar, we met all the requirements, including obtaining sugar from qualified Comesa member states or EAC member countries. We even produced a letter issued by the factory producing the sugar to confirm that the sugar under inquiry was produced by themselves," said one of the importers. He added, "All the consignments were accompanied by valid Comesa Certificates of Origin." Rules of origin are required to reconcile the imports against the allocated quota and ensure that it is not overdrawn. According to documents seen by The EastAfrican, KRA is demanding full payment of duty and fees from a number of importers who had already brought in the sugar under the framework. "You are required to pay full taxes as Comesa quota is exhausted, and kindly seek Comesa rates for approval," states communication sent by KRA. The business community is now raising queries about the demand considering that any importation of sugar under Comesa is cleared by AFA after reconciliation of imports against the allocated quota and ensure that it is not overdrawn. According to a December 24, 2020 circular, Customs and border control commissioner Pamela Ahago notified KRA deputy commissioners and staff that they should tell accredited importers to take advantage of the Comesa window to import more sugar. Ms Ahago said a review of the adopted 41st Comesa Council Report dated November 26, 2020, showed that the Quota Safeguards covers the period March 1, 2020 to February 28, 2021 and indicated that just 192,527 tonnes of the allocated quota of 250,000 tonnes of sugar imports from March 2020 to October 2020 had been made. KRA also banned 10 companies with a total volume of 10 000 tonnes in various container freight stations in Mombasa from importing any more sugar under Comesa. The companies are Big Two Commodities, Commodix, Fixate Commodities, Niate Commodities, Ifox Commodities, Pacematt Commodities, Option Two Ltd, Niang Commodities Ltd, Pillarmat Ltd and Pricematt. --TheEastAfrican--